The task of identifying and correcting a grammatical problem in a statement that is grammatically wrong is known as grammar error correction, or GEC. All types of grammatical errors, including as misspellings, improper use of articles, prepositions, pronouns, nouns, etc., as well as weak sentence structure, can be included in this list. GEC is simply an NLP job that trains computers to fix grammar in the same way that humans do. Grammar checkers are used in a variety of applications: email, programs, text editors, messages, and others, to check the grammar of the input text.
There are multiple approaches to this task: rule based systems, syntax based system, different types of machine learning systems and neural based systems.
Rule-based systems compare text against a collection of manually created rules (error patterns) that have been preset. Syntax-based systems make use of the text's syntax  and parse if with the help of a parser, a morphological analyzer, and a lexical database,. The parser uses the provided grammar to generate a parse tree, and if it is unable to create the tree, the text is deemed incorrect.
These kinds of systems are greate in detecting a correcting certain types of error, but do not generalize well. They are also hard to implement and have a heavy storage footprint, and as such other alternatives have been explored.
There are two main approaches for machine learning: classification and machine based methods. These approaches have been historicaly been applied succesfully to the gramatical error correction task, but are hard to implement and require a lot of expert knowlage.
Neural networks have also been used to great success, but have been overshadowed by the Transformer Architecture
In general people make a lot of written mistakes. This can be due to lack of knowladge regarding the syntactic/grammatical structure of the language due to lack of experience (young users who have not mastered the language or non-native users), or maybe due to inattentiveness and being in a hurry. Whatever the cause may be there and in almost human written media almost certainly there will be grammatical errors.
In the english language, due to it being the predominant language on the internet and having the most speakers (native and non-native), there are a lot more solutions to this problem compare to other lesser spoken languages. 
This thesis tries to tackle the grammatical error correction task for the Romanian language, which is poor in high quality data, comparede to something like the English language.
